# EthicalRepository
Repository for exercise 4.1
Tyler Wilkins, tjw38t
#Table Summary
This table represents a series of ethical quandaries and a list of technical and social systems that are affected by each quandary. The chosen case for creating this list and choosing the systems to represent is, "A retailer selling your personal information to others for profit". The ethical quandaries represented are chosen based on the ACM/IEEE ethical principles listed in lecture. Each quandary is meant to call into question whether one of the ethical principles is being met in the system.

The first quandary is "Is this consistent with public interests?". The following check marks indicate what systems are affected by this question. Any cells not marked are not directly impacted by this, meaning it does not impact the public interests. The next quandary is "Is this consistent with client interests?". Systems affected by this question directly affect the wellfare of customers and their data. Next is the quandary "Does this harm product standards?". Systems shown to be affected directly impact the quality of the product offered by the retailer. Next is the quandary "Is this consistent with common sense moral judgement?". This calls into question whether the system operates in a way that fails to call into question the ethics of its creator. The next quandary is "Does this harm product maintainability and/or management?". This calls into question whether the system affects the retailer's ability to reasonably maintain and manage products offered. The quandary "Does this promote and protect the integrity of the profession?" questions the impact of the system on similar products and systems in the profession. The next quandary is "Is this fair and supportive of colleagues in the profession?". This quandary calls into question the impact that the system has on others in the same profession and whether it affects them in a fair way. The final quandary is "Does this support the self improvement and progression of the industry". This quandary asks whether the system supports the continued progression and development of the industry. 